---
layout: film
title: "By the Law"
date: "1926-01-01"
date_posted: "2024-08-28"
director: "Lev Kuleshov"
cinematographer: "Konstantin Kuznetsov"
images:
  - url: "by_the_law_03.jpeg"
  - url: "by_the_law_12.jpeg"
  - url: "by_the_law_36.jpeg"
  - url: "by_the_law_98.jpeg"
---

Maybe the best silent I’ve ever seen. A horror western set in the Yukon that is brimming with incredible shots, harrowing sequences and has an oblique moral center that really kept me guessing and fully pays off. This portrays the aftermath of murder better than any film I can think of because Kuleshov never cuts, we simply stay in the room with two people as they try to comprehend how their circumstances have changed. I’ve also never watched a silent film where sound is evoked more viscerally — the dog’s ears twitching from the Irish flute, the tea kettle screaming during the murder sequence, ice breaking.

The most impressive part of the whole film beyond the technical achievements in cinematography and editing is its meaning. Kuleshov plants sympathies for Dennin in the beginning but lets the storm and the horror of captivity obscure the message until the final scene: the religious pretense that kept Dennin alive through the flood was the same one that openly subjugated him as a second class citizen and deprived him of food and fair compensation before it. The most blistering “Keep your God, I’ll take my fucking money” ending in history. Absolute scorcher.

The electronic score to the beautiful restored version was a little busy so I watched this while listening to Old Saw’s [Sewn the Name](https://lobbyartrecs.bandcamp.com/album/sewn-the-name). Perfect acoustic drone n’ doom pairing.
