---
layout: film
title: "History of the Occult"
date: "2000-01-01"
date_posted: "2024-08-30"
director: "Cristian Ponce"
cinematographer: "Franco Cerana & Camilo Giordano"
images:
  - url: "history_occult_11.jpeg"
  - url: "history_occult_17.jpeg"
  - url: "history_occult_18.jpeg"
  - url: "history_occult_24.jpeg"
---

A very unique and compelling cosmic horror about the relationship between the occult and geopolitics that plays like a journalistic procedural / *A Field in England*. It reminded me a lot of 2018’s *Susperia* as a very detailed and skewed fictional world that provides zero exposition for the audience. This adds to the horror, like you are watching a transmission from another universe, but it also requires a second viewing because I really only understood the <i>premise</i> around the final 15 minutes. 

Luckily, the film is as propulsive and visually engaging as its contents are obscure. The grainy black and white is lit beautifully and interjected with color and shifting aspect ratios minimally and effectively. The handheld camera works really well to evoke a Paranoia Trilogy tone, nervously swiveling between characters as they speak. And save for one tentacle-y slip, the special effects, supernatural elements and bichromatic psychedelic sequences look amazing. 

More than anything, though, the political analogy is extremely effective in conveying the psychological menace of dictatorship. This is a horror about living inside the unreality of a regime which has starved the populace of free information and replaced it with fear, an embargo that casts the region and its citizens out of time.
