---
layout: film
title: "On Dangerous Ground"
date: "1951-01-01"
date_posted: "2024-08-30"
director: "Nicholas Ray"
cinematographer: "George E. Diskant"
images:
  - url: "on_dangerous_19.jpeg"
  - url: "on_dangerous_27.jpeg"
  - url: "on_dangerous_30.jpeg"
  - url: "on_dangerous_39.jpeg"
---

Still blown away by Kiss Me Deadly, I wanted to find other projects from screenwriter A.I. Bezzerides. While this is much more focused on finding a personal moral compass rather than Deadly’s cosmic paranoia, many of the same messy, profound and classical elements in the writing are the same.

The George E. Diskant cinematography looks equally incredible in the urban and natural settings and the Bernard Herman score is fantastic. At certain points, kinetic camera movements stabbed by the score feel completely visceral — running after the assaulters in the city, tumbling backwards inside the rural home, that bizarre walking sequence after the funeral. Ryan, Lupino and Bond all give strong performances and Ian Wolfe in earmuffs always adds to a film’s production value.

It is unique that the city portion of the movie lasts as long as it does and establishes so many characters but the two parts of the film are in dialogue with one another. The churn of the city contrasts the stark relief of the country, but the moral dilemma is the same. It's about how you want to approach this unending conflict: in your crummy little apartment with your control freak note cards and your anger problem, or letting go and sharing the weight with someone else.

Uneven and messy but there’s a lot bubbling up in this one —