---
layout: film
title: "Punishment Park"
date: "1971-01-01"
date_posted: "2024-08-30"
director: "Peter Watkins"
cinematographer: "Peter Smokler & Joan Churchill"
images:
  - url: "punishment_park_41.jpeg"
  - url: "punishment_park_30.jpeg"
  - url: "punishment_park_32.jpeg"
  - url: "punishment_park_82.jpeg"
---

“I gather you’re not going to walk the next 50 miles to reach the American flag?”

“I wouldn’t walk around the goddamn, fuckin’ corner for the American flag.”

Amazed that I haven’t even heard of this before. From the description, I thought this might veer toward the exploitation side of things but this is a disarmingly high concept, intricately constructed, proto-found footage film that feels like the definitive **America is a Death Cult** cinematic record. 

The structure feels totally unique; an alternate history that also recognizes real events of the time (Kent State, the Chicago Police Riots, the Vietnam War) becoming a kind of dream logic analogy for the American criminal justice systems versus the American people, stripped of urban obfuscation in the California desert. The “outlaws” distinguish themselves into different factions of the Left by how closely they adhere to the rules of a course, designed to create situations where police can murder captives when they can claim they are acting in self defense.

An interesting premise and audacious to produce in 1971 — but here’s the thing — it’s executed perfectly. This is one of the best edited films I’ve ever seen. The documentary style camera movement is gripping. As someone who often bumps against it, these are some of the most consistent, believable (and funny!) performances of what seem like largely improvised material that I’ve ever watched. The narration adds a great tone and the performance of the director as the director is incredibly jarring and effective. Every establishment figure is so immediately recognizable.

Most importantly though, the premise seems destined towards nihilism yet it resolves in an incredibly clear eyed, searing indictment. There’s no resignation in this thing.
