---
layout: film
title: "The Set-Up"
date: "1949-01-01"
date_posted: "2024-08-31"
director: "Robert Wise"
cinematographer: "Milton Krasner"
images:
  - url: "the_set_up_43.jpeg"
  - url: "the_set_up_27.jpeg"
  - url: "the_set_up_04.jpeg"
  - url: "the_set_up_01 (1).jpeg"
---

Considering the conventional format of modern sports films, I was struck by the real time structure and the creative ways Wise developed story in this unique mold, which felt both casual and character-driven as well as maximalist during the extended fight sequence. The film captures the prolonged anticipation element of performance incredibly well, and all of the introspection and existentialism that comes along with that wait.

Robert Ryan and Audrey Totter are both phenomenal and both playing against type, as sympathetic characters coming to terms that they are at a crossroads in life. For a sports film, Wise spends a unique amount of time with the female lead in solitary, living the mirror image of the match, wandering the fallout of the nightlife industry, daydreaming and hatching a possible escape in the event of an increasingly likely worst case scenario. Also, Ryan perfectly sells why his character has outstayed his welcome in an overwhelmingly bleak trade: he loves sharing space with ambition, and how that drive can topple order. 

The concept of casting boxing match audience members as side characters with their own minor backstories throughout the extended fight sequence is genius, the cinematography and editing are phenomenal and the absolute murderer’s row of character actor faces in this thing. An embarrassment of eye bags.

p.s.: Yes, the ending feels like a bit of a studio concession, but just like the original *Nightmare Alley*, its thrown off in the last thirty seconds of the film like an after dinner mint and didn’t take away from the heft of the thing.