---
layout: film
title: "The Unknown Man of Shandigor"
date: "1967-01-01"
date_posted: "2024-09-21"
director: "Jean-Louis Roy"
cinematographer: "Roger Bimpage"
images:
  - url: "shandigor_29.jpeg"
  - url: "shandigor_18.jpeg"
  - url: "shandigor_40.jpeg"
  - url: "shandigor_23.jpeg"
---

I’ve never watched a movie that has felt more like a feature length dream than this one. I’ve read reviews that have compared this to some extremely wacky sixties movies and while this certainly has it’s moments, the film feels like a real dream logic hangover of WWII and the Holocaust in popular, spy genre clothing. Much like in dreams, every time things became disturbing, they also turn silly as a means of deflection. 

Albinos fight soap bubbles and bald men liquify in obvious allusions to the gas chamber, mutated beasts feed on dry ice in modernist swimming pools and sculptures are scarred in chemical warfare. Nationalities are reduced to suspicious, glancing caricatures, hiding in bowling alleys and rising out of the ocean. The cast is made up of refugees of the war like the absolute titan Daniel Emilfork and the symbolism is surprisingly subtle and effective considering other bombastic choices (look for the Swiss Cuckoo clock). The camerawork is incredibly creative, floating like a fruit fly around the subjects, veering dangerously close to grasping hands and swinging car doors, and perched stoically below Emilfork’s eye bags like a gargoyle.

A visually stunning movie with gags and real substance underneath. This would be really something to pair up with The Cremator as a double feature.
