---
layout: film
title: "Saint Jack"
date: "1979-01-01"
date_posted: "2024-09-29"
director: "Peter Bogdanovich"
cinematographer: "Robby Müller"
images:
  - url: "saint_jack_58.jpeg"
  - url: "saint_jack_61.jpeg"
  - url: "saint_jack_62.jpeg"
  - url: "saint_jack_63.jpeg"
---

Respectively, one of the best movies about expatriates, colonialism and sex work that I’ve ever seen, and one that I didn’t even know existed before this year. A phenomenal, totally inhabited performance from Gazzara that is just as warm and affable up front as it is revealing and weighted in the latter half. Denholm Elliot and Monika Subramanium are both so great and “the British Group” are like live action Chuck Jones cartoon, doddering through the landscape. 

This feels like a response to seventies film nihilism about people working outside the legal world, often rooted in fear-based Christian morality, instead illustrating these figures as people who survive by reputation, and whose interactions and goodwill towards their community is necessary to their own survival. In a more cynical movie, this could come off transactional, but the film excels at a more vulnerable and honest worldview, that we are all in this mess together. A wild mix of hard-edged world weariness and genuine human empathy.
 
 ___

 Watched again after reading about how Robby Muller joined the production right after working on The American Friend. Feels like he was only involved in some of the work, or maybe Bogdanovich hemmed him in.  While it all looks good, there are only intermittent Muller face melters — the foggy purple bridge scene, the sex worker pick up sequence and that great “peacock” walking shot between Gazzara and Elliott. Even better on the second watch.
